Revamp the `Extending`, `Plugins`, `Architecture`, and `Programmatic configuration` pages (#2696)
apache/logging-log4j2: src/site/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/manual/extending.adoc

Under the hood, link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/LogManager.html[`LogManager`] locates a `Provider` implementation using <<service-loader,the `ServiceLoader` mechanism>>, and delegates invocations to it.
Hence, you can extend it by providing a `org.apache.logging.log4j.spi.Provider` implementation in the form of a `ServiceLoader`.

Having multiple ``Provider``s in the classpath is strongly discouraged.
Yet when this happens, you can use xref:manual/systemproperties.adoc#log4j2.provider[the `log4j2.provider` property] to explicitly select one.

[#LoggerContextFactory]
=== `LoggerContextFactory`

link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/spi/LoggerContextFactory.html[`LoggerContextFactory`] is the factory class used by Log4j API implementations to create xref:manual/architecture.adoc#LoggerContext[`LoggerContext`]s.
If you are using Log4j Core, you can provide a custom implementation using xref:manual/systemproperties.adoc#log4j2.loggerContextFactory[the `log4j2.loggerContextFactory` property].
Another way to provide a custom `LoggerContextFactory` is to <<Provider,provide a custom `Provider`>>.

> But this is generally discouraged, since it requires a more complicated setup and is intended mostly to be used by Log4j API implementations.

Reviewer: I disagree: if you are using Log4j Core, you should not provide a custom implementation of the `LoggerContextFactory`.
You should use `ContextSelector` below.

Author: Fixed in 43f84a784ca11ae1f8b4a064fa397327aa4f7e66.

You can provide a custom `ConfigurationFactory` in the form of a <<Custom_Plugins,plugin>>.
For example, see {project-github-url}/log4j-core/src/main/java/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/config/xml/XmlConfigurationFactory.java[`XmlConfigurationFactory.java`] and {project-github-url}/log4j-core/src/main/java/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/config/xml/XmlConfiguration.java[`XmlConfiguration.java`] of Log4j Core.

You can use xref:manual/systemproperties.adoc#log4j2.configurationFactory[the `log4j2.configurationFactory` property] to explicitly set a `ConfigurationFactory` to be used before any other factory implementation.

[#LoggerConfig]
=== `LoggerConfig`

link:../javadoc/log4j-core/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/config/LoggerConfig.html[`LoggerConfig`] denotes the `Logger` configurations in a `Configuration`.

> A custom `LoggerConfig` needs to suffice following conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A custom `LoggerConfig` needs to satisfy the following conditions:
```

* It needs to be declared as a <<Custom_Plugins,plugin>>
** Its plugin `category` should be set to link:../javadoc/log4j-core/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/config/Node.html#CATEGORY[`Node.CATEGORY`]

For example, see `RootLogger` definition in {project-github-url}/log4j-core/src/main/java/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/config/LoggerConfig.java[`LoggerConfig.java`].

[#LogEventFactory]
=== `LogEventFactory`

Log4j Core uses link:../javadoc/log4j-core/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/impl/LogEventFactory.html[`LogEventFactory`] to create link:../javadoc/log4j-core/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/LogEvent.html[`LogEvent`]s.
You can replace the default `LogEventFactory` implementation with a custom one of yours by using xref:manual/systemproperties.adoc#log4j2.logEventFactory[the `log4j2.logEventFactory` property].

[NOTE]
====
xref:manual/async.adoc[] discard `LogEventFactory` and any configuration related with it.
====

[#MessageFactory]
=== `MessageFactory2`

Log4j Core uses link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/message/MessageFactory2.html[`MessageFactory2`] to create link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/message/Message.html[`Message`]s.

> You can replace the default `MessageFactory2` implementation with a custom one of yours by using xref:manual/systemproperties.adoc#log4j2.messageFactory[the `log4j2.messageFactory` property].

Reviewer: We should probably warn the user that the default message factory must interpret format strings that contain `{}` as placeholder.

If they want to use other formatters, they should use the `LogManager` methods that accept a `MessageFactory`.

Author: Fixed in 8fd4b7e680a8f12dacd4333d578aefbc8ad755ee.

In the case of xref:manual/flowtracing.adoc[], Log4j Core uses link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/message/FlowMessageFactory.html[`FlowMessageFactory`].

> You can replace the default `FlowMessageFactory` implementation with a custom one of yours by using xref:manual/systemproperties.adoc#log4j2.flowMessageFactory[the `log4j2.flowMessageFactory` property].

Reviewer: Same remark as for `MessageFactory`: a `FlowMesssageFactory` needs to accept format string that use `{}` as placeholders.

Author: Fixed in 8fd4b7e680a8f12dacd4333d578aefbc8ad755ee.
